Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the macroverse.
Today, we're going to talk about the
most recent inflation report and talk
about the ramifications for Bitcoin. If
you guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and check out the sale on
Into the Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
And as a reminder, I look forward to
seeing you guys at the first ITC
conference in Miami
uh November 20th through the 22nd. Links
in the description below.
We just got the recent inflation report.
And I don't know if you guys remember,
but a few weeks ago, we talked about how
what would likely happen for Bitcoin is
that we would find a low late June or
early July. We would then rally and then
sell off in the mid-July around the CPI
report, but that the CPI report would
likely come in a lot cooler than
expected, and then that would sort of
fuel
the rally a little bit longer, maybe
into like late July, even as late as
like early to mid-August. And one of the
things we talked about with that is that
you don't actually need a narrative for
it. Like you can see that's exactly how
it played out in 2018. We set a low in
in late June, early July. We got a
little bit of a rally, sold off in the
mid-July, got a larger rally, and then
gave it all back in August and going
into September. So, it it it's a pattern
we have seen before.
And
I know that that's sort of the narrative
being assigned, but look, we've seen
this before. You know, we we've seen
essentially the same thing. And so, when
you look at where the headline inflation
came in at, it came in at 3.5. Last
month, it was 4.2. Consensus was like
3.8 or 3.9. So,
here we are, coming in below
expectations,
and the market likes it. Now, core
inflation came in at 2.6, and the
forecast was higher, right? 2.8, 2.9,
and last month it was 2.9. So, we've
seen inflation come back down
a little bit. Bitcoin in the short term
is is clearly liking that. But, remember
from a seasonality perspective, this is
what usually happens. It It really is.
Um if you were to go look at at monthly
returns for Bitcoin, right? Monthly
returns for Bitcoin the last couple of
mid-term years, I mean Bitcoin's up 10%
this this July already. 2022, they went
up 20%. 20 2018, it went up almost 40%.
So,
what you're seeing right now with
Bitcoin is still what it normally does.
And the argument is that look, we saw we
saw this play out before. Like we saw
how in 2018 Bitcoin set a February low
and then swept the low in late June,
early July, just like it did in 2026.
And then the the rejection over here was
in May off the bear market resistance
band. So, it's all the same thing. And
my guess is that like last in 2018, as
Bitcoin kind of kept going back up, it
just kept getting rejected by the bear
market resistance band. It squeezed and
then forced a direction. This time we're
doing the same thing. Like we're we're
basically squeezing here and it's going
to force Bitcoin to decide, all right,
which way is it actually going to break?
And so Bitcoin is getting squeezed
between the 200-week moving average and
the bear market resistance band. So, if
you were to kind of extend these out,
what I would what I would guess would
happen with Bitcoin, you know, could
maybe come back up to the bear market
resistance band, come back down, and
then you get your resolution
like between the August to, you know,
sort of Q4 time frame in line with what
we saw in prior cycles. Now, if you look
at the inflation rate year-over-year, I
mean you can see that is a nice
pullback, right? By inflation. That is a
nice drop.
Um
it's a very welcome drop. A lot of
people are are very tired from price
increases. Obviously, I am. I know a lot
of other people are as well. If you look
at the core inflation chart, you can see
that it still been generally dropping.
So that's good to see. What I'd like to
take a look at is the inflation rate
year-over-year per category. Okay, so
when we look at category, we can figure
out like where where is this drop coming
from? Again, but they're all they're
weighted differently. So here's headline
inflation. You can see it's come back
down. Look at food and beverage. All
right, so if you look at food and
beverage, that dropped not a lot, but it
dropped a little.
If you look at at housing, that had a
pretty substantial drop. And remember,
housing accounts for like 2/3 of it when
weighted, I believe.
Uh if you look at apparel, that also
dropped. Transportation dropped, but
honestly pretty positive.
Uh and and that's been one of the things
that has been highly negative at
different points during this business
cycle.
Uh if you look at medical care, that
also dropped. Recreation actually went
up. Education and communication was
negative. Other goods and services also
dropped. So, a lot of things dropped and
the things that contribute a lot to CPI
like housing dropped considerably. And
if you look at the inflation rate
year-over-year contribution per
category, cuz remember they're weighted
differently, you can see what I'm
talking about. All right, so if you look
at headline inflation, now if you look
at food and beverage, you know, food and
beverage going down impacted it. But
look at housing. You see how housing had
had a had a much lar- had had a fairly
substantial impact on on the inflation
rate.
Uh transportation
also had a big had a big effect, right?
Last month 1.5
uh for that contribution. This month it
was only one. And that was because it
while it was inflationary, it wasn't as
inflationary. So, the stars have aligned
for the inflation report. Uh Bitcoin has
certainly liked it in the short term.
Core inflation looks fine as well. I
guess the one thing to consider though
is down the line you are starting to see
oil get a little bit of a bounce here.
Now, maybe it's just back testing.
Hopefully it is. I don't I don't
necessarily want oil to go to go too
much higher
because that would I mean again it would
just make the inflation problem worse,
but this is you know this is something
to watch and and and a lot of times when
you get these patterns like this, oil
will come down, go back up, and then
come back down. And if the low is in
then, then it'll run after that. So, I
would I would watch for for something
like that to play out in the coming
weeks. That's a a very common pattern
that you'll see in in a lot of different
markets, but I think for now Bitcoin is
still kind of tracking
what it normally does in midterm years.
And and despite all the mental
gymnastics uh from from the crowds
the July rally happened anyways, you
know, and and it's important to
recognize that 4-year cycles do not I
mean the bear markets are not just down
only just like the bull markets are not
just up only.
You have a bear market.
You have countertrend rallies. Bitcoin
swept below exactly when it swept below
in in 2018.
And in 2018, the next window of weakness
did not really occur until we got into
August.
Late July, early August. In fact, in
2018, Bitcoin had this nice little rally
in April kind of like what we just got a
couple of months ago, and then it had
another smaller rally in in sort of
July. So, I I would argue that's where
Bitcoin is right now, right? Like we had
the larger rally earlier.
Right? We already had the the the the
larger rally that occurred. Now we're
probably in a smaller one that could
very well again take us to the bear
market resistance span and lead us to
that ultimate decision as to which way
this thing is going to break. Again, if
it breaks down, it would be in line with
market cycle theory, and then you would
have a low late in the year which would
then align to the normal market cycle
bottom. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and again
check out the first ITC conference
coming to you in Miami in late November.
Links in the description below. Thank
you guys for tuning in and I'll see you
next time. Bye.